In my bag of superstitions I have a notion about "talent." Imagine a box of a million assorted Legos. Think about the kinds of things you could build with the big green sheets and lots of little translucent knobs, and with wheels and gears and, of course, just blocks. A little creativity goes a long way, but there are going to be some things easier to build than others. No window blocks in your box? Your skyscraper's going to look odd, but maybe you can swing a sweet bridge. Can you make a skyscraper? Of course you can try, and maybe you'll find a way, e.g., leaving gaps where the windows would go. You can do it, or approximate it, but not quite as easily as if you had those window blocks.

Do you want to build a bridge? Well, fuck no; it's not an Erector set, after all, and the skyscraper is the cannonical Lego block structure. So you're slaving away to erect that towering heap of plastic, and things aren't going well, and people are questioning your choices, and now so are you, and you wonder to yourself, "This is hard. I just don't have the right pieces. Am I just wasting my time?" The answer is: I don't know what the answer is.

For you to be wasting your time, you've got to have a metric for time efficiency, and you've got to be missing your target. Where do you get that metric? Is it reasonable? Is it relevant? I mean, if your goal is to do something in a certain amount of time, then the goal isn't at all about the something, it's about the time. If it's about the something, about building the skyscraper or proving a theorem, then the time's irrelevant to the goal. You are either finished, or you're not.

This kind of cuts to one of my points. I can't speak for our entire culture, let alone others; but I know a lot of people who get pent up about whether or not they're going about their goals the wrong way. They wonder if they're wasting their time. I think they're being handed goals and they're taking them and then standing around confused and staring off into space trying to get their bearings. They do so, actually, at the expense of what it is they want to get done. Worrying about which is the One Right Way to proceed exacerbates a false exclusivity between the options, and bars any actual progress on the goal by consuming our do-gooder with a sense of dread, fearing to make a mistake.

Maybe it's too simplistic, but the philsophy I'm building and moving into goes something like: if you want to do something, you shouldn't let how bad you are at doing that thing stop you. If you're aiming to do something quickly, pick something else. Pick something like doing laundry, or trying a new soap, and fill your life with bags and boxes of little throw-away evevents and achievements. They're easy to do, don't require that you live with feeling stupid most of the time, and if you have to give any of them up you won't need a box of tissues and a shoulder.

But, if you want to do something? Then it's the something you're doing or trying to do that's important, and not the timeframe in which you do it. That sounds like a load off, right, that you can forget these arbitrary standards of time-efficacy and can just while away your days puttering at your thing and that's good enough. But the Indiscriminatrix that let you off the hook has something better in mind: you're going to be stripped...of your "okay."

I call it the "culture of okay." I'm figuratively nauseated to admit to myself that I've lived in the culture of okay for most of the life I can remember. You know you're in the Culture if you won't go back to school because you're too old. You're in the Culture if you haven't touched your short story in 13 years. You're in the culture if you're "bad at math."

The culture of okay starts when you are striving for something and fall short, and you look around to see what your careful audience thinks. <em>No comments? No smirks? Must be okay to fall short</em>. The culture of okay thrives among people who bother themselves <em>about</em> something, its social capitalization maybe, rather than <em>with</em> something, with being <em>in</em> the thing rather than about. Their eventual failure doesn't actually realize, not for them, because they've got a file folder of reasons why it's okay that they've read all the blogs about writing instead of writing. They're managing whether or not they can justify--to themselves and/or to others--a failure, to find reasons to accept, even embrace, failure. "It's okay that I'm not good at math, because I had a bad experience in grade school." "It's okay that I'm not staying fit. People at my age who work at a desk are usually getting in bad shape."

This culture of okay is similar to the time-efficacy argument, in that they're both not really about learning or achieving anything. This is the Anti Dog Eat Dog bill.

