layout: post
title: 
tags:
 - essay
published: false
excerpt:
---
I sit at my work computer, feeling it chug along like the anachonism it is. It is old in terms of its functionality, it's capacity to keep up with the technical needs of my job. It is old in terms of the modes of work it supports, themselves burdened by institutionalized intellectual lethargy. And it is old because on my best days I aspire to mimic the productivity and work ethic of those around me, working toward the ultimate goal of...well, depending on whom you ask, either building a career of some sort, or servicing clients of some sort, or...I don't know. I don't know what they're aim is, I don't know why they do what they do, except to do some given thing to the best of their ability. It feels algebriac in the sense that the focus is on the relation, on the equation, which freezes work ethic, drive, and attitude and leaves the context and topic variable.

I want to feel like I work hard, like I know what I'm doing, and especially that I am a domain expert. I enjoy mastery, or for the cynical its illusionary form, and it feels like once upon a time I didn't bother myself too much with the subject of the mastery. I don't pretend to know why, and I don't pretencd I don't realize my delusions, that i hadn't mastered things for which I felt I'd developed a master hand. I also know that my frustration with a stagnate work history doens't color all of this with broad, bold strokes. 

that may be the linch pin. It may be that I've crippled my perspective by being in one place for so long doing nearly the same thing, day in and day out. I accepted what was accepted of me because it was easy and safe in equal measure. Now I have no social network within my company to make inroads into any other post, so to do anything different I'll need to move outside the company. That requires tackling a whole new set of issues.

The firswt is finding the job to which to apply. I've been of the mind that I don't want to do the same thing I'm doing for less money and less clout, on the logic that--by induction--the distribution of personalities and company culture issues is likely to be within the equivalence class of my current company. There will still be shitty middle managers, too many chiefs, a glacial pace of cultural adaptation, and too little support for change. This is important because what I want most is change, even if i's scary and unsafe and hard. I want to think critically, to excercise a passion for something.

the next issue, though, is the balance between passion as its own reward and toopical relevance. I don't care about advertising, I don't want to sell clients on my comapny's purportedly stellar products. I want to do work and learn and change. I want to grow. I want to develop skills in the workplace theat translate directly into things I'm personally interested in. There's precious little time to stuff the learning of new domanis into off hours. So much better yto learn with others while working toward a common goal, learning something I can apply, learning something that is personally satisfying and which fits a curiosity of mine, and to whose development I might actually contreibute.

Maybe this expects too much or too little of jumping ship to another ship. Are all ships sinking? They're all piloted by humans, by their pettiness and their craving for mediocrity and pandering and poor technical acumen and a drive to get things done cheaply, quikly, and approximately well, in that order. It's accountants all the way down.

I'm sure some of this worry, this attitude, comes from a frustration with my current situation. But that frustration is borne of deeper currents. I work to earn money, more to keep up with the world and its requirements for living. Those requirements aren't merely financial or logistical, they're psychological and sociological. I don't have a deep interest in doing work, in believing in the mission statement, in maximizing my retirement funds. Strip it away and I'm barely holding onto a will to do well by my family, let alone anyone or anything else.

Statistically, there's nothing special about me. There's no reason my family needs me specifically. It just happens that I'm here, and have contributed to their biographies, and through this biographical cohesion we stay together. Will my wife wither and die without me? Hardly. She will continue, she will provide, she will find whatever she wants. Will my children live without me? Yes. In life I add to their biographies, but I will just as readily in death. "My dad died when I was nine," he'd say. "It really opened my eyes to mortality, it made me appreciate life. I'll never know what my life would've been like without him." Stuff that happens is just stuff that happens, and we take it all and fit it into a narrative that works. We don't even see each other.

We don't see each other but instead the avatars of others we've concocted in our brains. We feel for others even if they don't express a need for this. We imagine their emotions, we imagine their sadness or glee or pride, informed by but not limited to their expressions of such. It's through this that we anticipate their needs, anticipate their behavior, and anticipate their limits on us. As evidence, take our anthropomorphizing tendencies, to become attached to a car or a desk or a particular notebook. They serve us and are tokens of our personal narrative, devices for our personal storytelling, but we also project human needs upon them. Why else that slight notion that we betray a family car when we sell it, or the attributions of human emotions and motivations and cognition on dogs and cats? Yes, it's safe to assume dogs and cats feel emotions by some definition, but to assume they do so in a human fashion, in the shape of a human emotional relationship, is not supported by evidence. The cat probably meows for our attention because it wants the cerebrochemical rush contingent upon my rubbing its chin.

We're not different. I'll accept for the purpose of conversation the anthropocentrism that our emotions and thought are the most complex of all known life forms. Even then, that complexity emerges from the same biochemical stews, the same means of producing our "feelings" and "concepts". So I probably mope for my wife's attention because I want the cerebrochemical rush contingent upon her smiling at me and holding my hand. All our aspirations, our notions of purpose and productivity, are inextricably bound to and inevitably resultant from the mixture of hormones and nutrients and light and environment and toxins that make our bodies work in the first place.

In light of that, what's the point of wanting anything? There's no reason one choice is more valid, more objectively warranted, than another. Work, don't work. Love, don't love. Live, don't live. Eat, don't eat. Laugh, don't laugh. Care, don't care. Whatever, it doesn't matter.

Should it? I can't answer that. I don't take issue with whether it should or not, but rather with the fact that, since it doesn't matter, there's no basis on which to decide one way or the other. There's no particular reason to stay alive, and no particular reason to be dead, inevitability notwithstanding. There are causes, but no reasons.

How then to live? How to value anything enough to exert sufficient effort to attain those fleeting moments of proud clarity, of joy in a thing? What do I learn and why, and how do I apply it and why? The working and changing and growing, the passion, only fit into a delusional biography, an escapist narrative within which our character, our protagonist, matters, within which our character's actions and their repurcussions are important on their own merits. Without this basis, there's nothing to inform passion, there's nothing on top of which to build a motivation. Without this narrative, each act is equivalently absurd.

Without this narrative there is only a list of facts, a list of events which took place. Occasionally things align such that I can enjoy those events, or I want to be able to and can't. In the latter case, I bemoan that I hadn't worked toward being able to enjoy the event. I want to travel, but this requires finding a source of income and the means for caring for children and animals, which requires motivation, which is fleeting and rarely arises but for the moment in which I wish I'd taken care of these things so I can travel. I want to feel better, healthier, stronger, more physically capable but this requires maintaining a healthy lifestyle across gaps in existential motivation. It's hard to latch onto and formalize that motivation, because I immediately erode it with a nihilistic acid.

I wonder if this is depression, but I wince at the very thought. Not that I'm beyond the domain of mental disorders but that mental disorders are all about how statistical outliers compare to the bell-curve hump. Depression is nominally about a lack of positive motivation, a lack of wherewithal to walk through a living path, mostly about ignoring the defeat and despair that comes from a void of purpose. It feels like depression is the most rational response to life, and that all attempts to ameliorate it are attempts to construct a convincing curtain behind which to hide the void.

Do we need to just string together enough of these events to achieve by phi phenomenon a sense of meaning and purpose?

With only the choice to continue living, do I have enough to build a life on?

Mindfulness is about subordinating impulse toward serving a larger goal. It doesn't guarantee the quality of the goal, of the thing raised above all else.

Problem is, there seems no way for these choices to emerge systemically. They all feel arbitrary and artificial. So then executing on these artificial plans feels fake. Not even if we just do what "comes naturally" is this solved. We very often decry the acts of others even though they're doing what comes naturally. This implies that there *is* some objective measure of our choices and intentions...but no one knows whence they come. This has the defeating effect of undermining authenticity and authority, both mine and others'.

I see the logic in devising my own infrastructure of worth on which to hang my goals and such. But even when I *do* make goals or plans, simple or over-orchestrated, I attack it at once as being a sign of giving in, of taking solace in normalcy. I can't trust that any future me will agree to any contracts I sign on his behalf. That is: I don't like to be bossed around, even by myself.

--------

What else is there to write? The same bullshit, more effort spent trying to explain this. Why? Who's it for? Why is this a purpose I seem to have found? Do I want to find myself wrong?

Well fuck of course. I want to be wrong. I want to be giddy in the heat of an act that also contributes to future giddiness. I guess that's selling out, in a way, but it's no more dire than just dying. I mean, if the alternatives boil down to living or dying, and I choose living, well, why would I choose that? Do I want the giddiness for the sake of expediency?

Think about it: it's die now, or die later after you've procrastinated. How do we tend to procrastinate but by doing things that bring us pleasure, for some definition of "pleasure".

Jesus. Your own, personal, Jesus. Someone to hear your prayers. Someone who cares.

Your own personal Jesus.
Someone to hear your prayers.
Someone who's there.

Reach out and touch faith.

----

Am I so down on this stuff because I don't want to get too attached to it?

----
My happiness is a decoration for a peace of furniture in your narrative.

---

"We don't go wrong when we are kind and when we take care of good things." (Get transcript of Obama's speech 12/15/12.) This doesn't answer any questions, just shuffles the questions.

God has called the children home by having them gunned down.

---

Getting away from the business is returning to the source material from which we build our narrative.

---

What disappoints about political movements is their self-awareness. One becomes impressed with a history of movements which are forces of nature, not of individuals.

---

I will not survive the apocalypse. I can avoid interacting with people, can delude myself that I'm solitary and can exist with only my will and ability, by the virtualization of human endeavors. I don't need to barter for computer programmer time, or for carpentry, or for trash service. It's abstracted into a system designed to minimize interaction. (Also the cliché grocery store.)

In the apocalypse, by definition, these systems are broken. I'll need to work with people. I don't like that.

---

If I accept that my mind is a conceptual wrapper for my brain, and that therefore my mind can be affected by the systems to which my brain is connected, and further if I accept that there is no particular importance or providence to the arrangement of atoms, molecules, and biochemistry which forms "naturally"--that is, without excessive effort on my part to adapt it--then I am but left with the notion that, much to my dismay, there is no reason to assume that the "natural" (ibid) state of my mind is special and should be preserved.

---

I sometimes resist ideas because our preconceptions are driven partially by those narrative elements that we absorb without our consent.

---

I can weave a tapestry (ugh) of superfluous entertaining distractions, things to pass the time and which fire my various pleasure-oriented faculties. Eventually, they all diminish, whether by a developed tolerance or by the increasingly unavoidable conclusion on their true nature. On the latter, I mean that while in a small sample of interactions with such distractions, there are insufficient data to demonstrate the pattern of their fleeting nature, a larger sample may make such a pattern emerge and hard to ignore.

An open question is: is this the limit of our valuation of living? Are all lives just sequences or cycles of distractions and realizations of their mercurial value?

---

We give greater value to those things which come first, in terms of a thing's right to exist or purported natural status as preferred or necessary.  

---

Moleskine: 7/20/12

---


