What the fuck is there even to write about? I've already covered all this same ground, over and over. The notion of choosing how to live in some sense of industrious earnestness or whatever else I'd fucking call is it just fucking old. Maybe it's time to just live at the edge of sensibility? Fuck everything up and pick up the pieces? Not oringinal or considered or mindful or anything useful like that but who cares? Like what use is originality anyway? What is the use of its constant search, this originality?

How can I approach this differently? How can I get to something worth doing with living breath without the same old baggage? Is that just a matter of not being mindful at all? Like, just jumping into stuff without thinking of anything, not even me? What's the point of even that? It's not adding thing to anyting, it's been tried before, there's no gain. But there again, the concern. Like anything I could do would add anything worthwhile to "the world" (whatever the fuck that is) or make any lives improved in any sense.

Maybe I could make music? Stupid.
Maybe I could write poetry? Stupid.
There is literally nothing worth my time nor anything I can produce that's worth anyone else's time.

Yeah so let's make sure to write about it a lot. That'll go well.

Yep. Really good use of resources here. "Just keep writing" they say. "It'll work out somehow" they say. "Who are you even?" they ask.

What are the options even for my life? What could I even do? Who could I be? Have I ever considered the various options? What the actual fuck?

I'm hungry.

"I want something good to die for
To make it beautiful to live."

What does that mean? Why would you want something to die for? Not rhetorical.

Do these people even think about what they're doing, who they are, what they have to die for, or whether it's beautiful for them to live?

How is it that younger people have it so apparently figured out? Do they lack the inclination to overcomplicate things, or, well, is there a way to ask that that doesn't sound condescending, or even is without condescension entirely? Are they just "Wake up eat poop sweat laugh" machines? Is there anything more to anything? Is there a reason to be more than that? Why would I even bother asking any of this. It seems like a foregone conclusion that it doesn't matter at all what any of the answers are.

WE generally as a people or species talk about "expressing ourselves". I've never really understood the motivation for this. Like, what does it do, why does it feel good? Is it just vanity? Well, the more I think about doing something musical I guess I feel like it could release some things. Emotions or thoughts or philosopohical quandries or whatever. Release the confusion? I thinkt hat's too amitious even. Just...just it'll feel good I guess. Do I bother ask why people make music? Will my answer be different from theirs anyway, i.e., my reason for writing will be as different from other writers' reasons and similarly any reason for me to make music will be different from others' reasons?

Why are people walking around uptown anyway? Is it a social thing entirely? Do people like to observe socialization without being part of it? Of course I/you ask this kind of rhetorically, but then again, we're barely people anyway so our reasoning doesn't necessarily apply to others.

What if you created a truly anonymous social network that you didn't control, that no one controlled never mind this is a stupid idea. There's nothing truly or even practically anonymous anyway so what's the bother. It would just be kind of cool to be able to reach out to people without any means of being tracked, not for fear of being tracked but so it can be entirely ad hoc and without any or only minimal residual social pressure. Maybe that's what the 4Chan and similar achieve for the online world? The "dark web"? Whatever that sounds so lame. I bet there are dark-web long-timers who're all, like, "But this was OUR network for illicit transactions and now all the script-kiddies and people who've watched </scorpion> are here and it's so stupid."

Why does loneliness breed such insipidity? Why do I care who notices what I'm doing? I mean yeah there are the conventional reasons, the things we all take as received wisdom. But it's still perplexing or frustrating.
