I don't know what I want to do with my life.  I have skills and maybe talents, and I have interests and maybe passions.  I'm not convinced, not in some time and further from that shore each day, that or how these should factor into decisions I make.

Let's take the low-hanging fruit.  Current theory places the number of stars in the universe at...eleventy billion hundred zillion.  Or "a lot."  Or "enough that the sum of all life that's ever existed on Earth still can't crack maybe the four-thousandth decimal place."  We take up a proportion of the universe that might best be approximated by 0.  And there are over six billion of us here right now, several billion having come and gone.  So even if my life were important in social terms, in gross terms it never can be important.  But there's a presumption made by writing that, and that's that there's some infinitessimal distance between me and zero, and that that gives me room to write about something as if it does matter.  Let's proceed assuming what we do matters.  That's a nontrivial assumption, so we might as well make it explicit.

Last Sunday, I stared at a claim written on my chalkboard.  I stared at it for hours.  The statement was simple enough; I'll recreate it below.

Let $V, W$ be two vector spaces over the same field $F$, and $GL(V,W,F)$ be the collection of all vector space isomorphisms from $V$ to $W$.  Suppose also that $dim(V) = dim(W)$.  Then for each $f \in GL(V,W,F)$ we have $$GL(V,W,F) = \{ \varphi \circ f : \varphi \in GL(W,F) \}.$$

Don't let the symbols and jargon trip you up: it's not saying too much.  But I stared at it for hours, reading through my shambles of a textbook, reading another textbook, reading Wikipedia and Mathworld and whatever Google spit up.  Never in those hours did I feel quite able to assault the statement and create a series of statements that compelled the result as truth.  I don't think I ever did, actually.  Here's a link to what I cobbled together, if you're interested in that kinda stuff.

That's how this goes for me.  If not earlier, the night before an assignment's due, I don't sleep more than a couple of hours.  I lock myself up in our quasi-dedicated non-living project space, where my chalkboard sits waiting for more diligent use.  Sometimes I bring a caraffe of coffee, and almost always I bring music.  I have comfortable seating now, and plenty of chalk, and plenty of light, and a portable heater for the cooler nights ahead.  I've got everything I need to get the work done, except maybe the smarts.

This gets me wondering, often, at length: should I even still be at this?  I'm twelve years into an undergrad degree, a tenure protracted for several nonacademic reasons, but 12 years nonetheless.  And I started late.  And I'm getting restless, restless in that simple, shallow way high school kids get restless to leave school and huff paint or find the Lord or what have you.  The kind of restless I never identified with, that I looked down upon.  Yeah, I'm feeling the simple restlessness to drop the systematic educational system and just kind of <em>do</em> something.  But what?

And here we are again.  What to do, and on what to decide?  There's a little more to say on that, generally, before bothering with a specific case.

<h2></h2>

In my bag of superstitions I have a notion about "talent."  Imagine a box of a million assorted Legos.  Think about the kinds of things you could build with all those pieces, with the big green sheets and lots of little translucent knobs, and with wheels and gears and, of course, just blocks.  A little creativity goes a long way, but there are going to be some things easier to build than others.  No window blocks in your box?  Your skyscraper's going to look odd, but maybe you can swing a sweet bridge.  Can you make a skyscraper?  Of course you can try, and maybe you'll find a way, e.g., leaving gaps where the windows would go.  You can do it, or approximate it, but not quite as easily as if you had those window blocks.

Do you want to build a bridge?  Well, fuck no; it's not an Erector set, after all, and the skyscraper is the cannonical Lego block structure.  So you're slaving away to erect that towering heap of plastic, and things aren't going well, and people are questioning your choices, and now so are you, and you wonder to yourself, "This is hard.  I just don't have the right pieces.  Am I just wasting my time?"  The answer is: I don't know what the answer is.

For you to be wasting your time, you've got to have a metric for time efficiency, and you've got to be missing your target.  Where do you get that metric?  Is it reasonable?  Is it relevant?  I mean, if your goal is to do something in a certain amount of time, then the goal isn't at all about the something, it's about the time.  If it's about the something, about building the skyscraper or proving a theorem, then the time's irrelevant to the goal.  You are either finished, or you're not.

This kind of cuts to one of my points.  I can't speak for our entire culture, let alone others; but I know a lot of people who get pent up about whether or not they're going about their goals the wrong way.  They wonder if they're wasting their time.  I think they're being handed goals and they're taking them and then standing around confused and staring off into space trying to get their bearings.  They do so, actually, at the expense of what it is they want to get done.  Worrying about which is the One Right Way to proceed exacerbates a false exclusivity between the options, and bars any actual progress on the goal by consuming our do-gooder with a sense of dread, fearing to make a mistake.

Maybe it's too simplistic, but the philsophy I'm building and moving into goes something like: if you want to do something, you shouldn't let how bad you are at doing that thing stop you.  If you're aiming to do something quickly, pick something else.  Pick something like doing laundry, or trying a new soap, and fill your life with bags and boxes of little throw-away evevents and achievements.  They're easy to do, don't require that you live with feeling stupid most of the time, and if you have to give any of them up you won't need a box of tissues and a shoulder.

But, if you want to do something?  Then it's the something you're doing or trying to do that's important, and not the timeframe in which you do it.  That sounds like a load off, right, that you can forget these arbitrary standards of time-efficacy and can just while away your days puttering at your thing and that's good enough.  But the Indiscriminatrix that let you off the hook has something better in mind: you're going to be stripped...of your "okay."

I call it the "culture of okay."  I'm figuratively nauseated to admit to myself that I've lived in the culture of okay for most of the life I can remember.  You know you're in the Culture if you won't go back to school because you're too old.  You're in the Culture if you haven't touched your short story in 13 years.  You're in the culture if you're "bad at math."

The culture of okay starts when you are striving for something and fall short, and you look around to see what your careful audience thinks.  <em>No comments?  No smirks?  Must be okay to fall short.</em>  The culture of okay thrives among people who bother themselves <em>about</em> something, its social capitalization maybe, rather than <em>with</em> something, with being <em>in</em> the thing rather than about.  Their eventual failure doesn't actually realize, not for them, because they've got a file folder of reasons why it's okay that they've read all the blogs about writing instead of writing.  They're managing whether or not they can justify--to themselves and/or to others--a failure, to find reasons to accept, even embrace, failure.  "It's okay that I'm not good at math, because I had a bad experience in grade school."  "It's okay that I'm not staying fit.  People at my age who work at a desk are usually getting in bad shape."

This culture of okay is similar to the time-efficacy argument, in that they're both not really about learning or achieving anything.  This is the Anti Dog Eat Dog bill.
