An acquaintance of mine, an ostensibly well-meaning young guy--call him "Jeremy"--is in Afghanistan.  Shortly before his tour began, the unit Jeremy's was replacing went on a sortie, and one of them died in a mutually lethal gunfight with a purported member of the Taliban.  When Jeremy's unit arrived, both units talked about the situation.

Months later, Jeremy's unit went on a sortie.  They went to the town where the gunfight took place.  The unit tracked down several members of that Taliban member's family, reportedly including extended family such as grandparents and children, and killed all of them.

Then Jeremy sent pictures.  "Shot this nigga in the neck," he says.  "Shot this nigga in the eye."  I think they took video, too, but I haven't seen it.

I've never trained for war, and I've never been in war.  I've never met anyone from Afghanistan, I've never been to Afghanistan.  I've never shot someone, I've never been the serious target of any kind of violence.  I am potentially as ignorant as I can be to Jeremy's situation.

But I'm disturbed.  Not from the pictures; my diet of desensitizing media lets me view them untroubled.  I'm actually at a loss to articulate specifically why I'm disturbed.  I'm not troubled by the vulgarity of the human spirit, per se.  I guess what troubles me most is Jeremy's easy and mostly thoughtless justification.  "These people are just animals," he has said.  "They steal from each other, they steal from us, you can't trust them."  All of which might be true, but doesn't seem relevant to an expressed goal of securing freedom.  It's not the "War on Petty Theft and Dishonesty."  Jeremy and his unit celebrate their kills, celebrate with racist dogma and an unequivocal dismissing of any Afghani humanity.

There's nothing about gleefully tracking down a combatant's family, including his parents, grandparents, and child relatives, and killing them all and taking pictures and video of the whole affair that says to me, "We're fighting for your freedom."  If an armed attacker comes into my home, I am (I believe), by U.S. law, permitted to defend myself, up to and including the use of deadly force.  I would presume this is among the freedoms for which Jeremy so happily fights.  And yet when Jeremy's fellow soldier travels to another country and enters a citizen's home with the *express* goal at least of causing bodily harm if not to kill, why shouldn't the resident be permitted the same freedom?  Doesn't that contradict the notion of "spreading freedom"?  Shouldn't that signal a clarion call from Jeremy's reasoning faculties, something like, "Whoa.  Am I, in killing these people, defiling the right I hoped to defend?  If someone came into my mother's house and did this, would I rejoice at her newly delivered freedom?"

This is the sort of thing that often defeats my sometimes earnest wish to do good in the world.  I question the very assumption that there is good to be done, that this good matters, and that I can do it.  We seem, as a species, to have developed only grander scales for the same behaviors our prehistorical ancestors practiced.  It transforms the idea of doing good into a self-serving illusion, that doing good is only a consequence of a profitable adaptation, is only an evolutionary development which creates a sentimental attachment to species preservation.  That doing good does not exist.

I presume (know?) that my emotional response can be parsed into a product of cultural conditioning and physiological machinery.  With this, I look logically at the affair, and there's not too much of note.  Some people killed some people and took satisfaction in doing so.  When a bureaucratic apparatus is attached, it's "war" and they're "fighting for something" and there is celebration.  Otherwise, it's "murder" or "homicide" and there is condemnation.
